.TH "rfs" "1" "0.10" "remotefs" "remotefs"
.SH "NAME"
rfs \- remotefs client
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBrfs\fR \fIhost:remote_path\fR \fImountpoint\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS General options:
.PP
\fB\-o opt,\fR[\fBopt...\fR]
.RS 8
Mount options
.RE
.PP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
.RS 8
Print help
.RE
.SS RFS options:
.PP
\fB\-q\fR
.RS 8
Suppress warnings
.RE
.PP
\fB\-o\fR username=NAME
.RS 8
Auth username
.RE
.PP
\fB\-o\fR rd_cache=0
.RS 8
Disable read cache
.RE
\fB\-o\fR wr_cache=0\fR
.RS 8
Disable write cache
.RE
.PP
\fB\-o\fR rdwr_cache=0
.RS 8
Disable read/write cache
.RE
.PP
\fB\-o\fR password=FILENAME
.RS 8
Filename with password for auth
.RE
.PP
\fB\-o\fR port=PORT
.RS 8
Port which the server is listening to
.RE
.PP
\fIhost:remote_path\fR consist of the server name or its IP address and the 
path of the directory which is exported on the server. If the file 
\fI/etc/rfs-exports\fR on server contain the line: \fI/exports/alice alice ()\fR 
then path must be \fI/exports/alice\fR.
.PP
\fI\-o username=NAME\fR Login name on the server. It may not be user in system 
database until UGO option is enabled for desired export.
.PP
\fI\-o password=FILENAME\fR The given file must contain the password in plain text 
for accessing the remote directory.
.PP
\fBNote that for security reason this file shall only be readable by its owner.\fR
.PP
The command line for mounting the remoteresource may look like:
.PP
\fIrfs -o username=alice,password=./pwd-home 192.168.1.2:/exports/alice ./mnt/\fR
.PP
There are also a lot of options which are offered by FUSE. FUSE have been build 
for many kind of file systems and not all options may be correct with remotefs. 
Some of the FUSE options may result in errors or decrease the perfomance of remotefs.
.PP
However, \fI-okernel_cache\fR may increase transfer speed for remotefs.
.PP
Please avoid usage of \fI-odirect_io\fR - it will most probably lead to errors.
.SS "Remarks"
.PP
\fBSolaris:\fP In order to mount remote directory with remotefs you must have FUSE
access rights, see user_attr(4). This can be done by setting the 
"FUSE File System Management" rights with the user and group administrations tools,
.PP
\fBFreeBSD:\fP Mounting of FUSE based file system is allowed if vfs.usermount is
set to 1 via the sysctl command. This can be configured within the file
/etc/sysctl.conf (add the line "vfs.usermount=1"). You can unmount your private
mountpoint with the umount command.
.SH "KNOWN ISSUES"
.PP
If the file /etc/passwd and /etc/group on the client and the server are not
identical, the displayed name for unknown user and group will default to
nobody (user name), nogroup or name of the primary group of the user on the
client. In this case, some files or directories will not be accessed as reported 
by remotefs.
.PP
This actually means, that remotefs may not know real user or group which file
is belong, but in any case, access is controlled by server with his security 
setup.
.PP
For example:
.PP
Server has file with user and group are remotefs:remotefs. But client doesn't have 
user and group "remotefs", so this file may be reported as nobody:nogroup. Even if
client's user could access nobody's files on his system, server won't allow it, since 
real owner of this file is remotefs user.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.PP
Aleksey Tulinov: aleksey_t@users.sourceforge.net 
.br
Jean\-Jacques Sarton: jjsarton@users.sourceforge.net
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
See remotefs project on SourceForge: http://remotefs.sourceforge.net/
.SH "COPYING"
GNU General Public License (GPL) 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBrfsd\fR(8), \fBrfspasswd\fR(8) 
