.TH "rfs_nss" "1" "0.10" "remotefs" "remotefs"
.SH "NAME"
rfs_nss \- remotefs server for id-mapping
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBrfs\fR [-l] [-f] [-r] [-s]

.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB\-l\fR print log on the terminal.
.br
\fB\-f\fR start in foreground.
.br
\fB\-s\fR store the names in a file so they will be load at start.
.br
\fB\-r\fR allow seeting only by dedicated programs
.RE

.PP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
rfs_nss is a little client which must run on the remotefs client.
.PP
On Unix systeme users and groups are identified by a uid or a gid.
Remotefs use user name and group name in order to identify the user
or group and not the uid or gid.
.PP
rfs_nss get queries for uid or gid and return, if the name is not
known an id which value depend from the queried name.
This happen if you mount a remotefs duerectory and if the user or group
name is unknown.
.PP
This feature allow you, for example, to see the owner of a file, even
if the user is not known on your system.
.PP
If you change the ownership of a file or directory you must
be shure that the user or group is well knowm on the target system.
.PP
Tfs_nfs can run as a normal service or as an on demand service.
The prefered way is to start it only if a rfs client is running
and the imported directory id in \fBugo\fR mode.
.PP
At the start of the rfs client rfs check if there is allready
a running rfs_nss instance. If this is not the case rfs_nss
will be started.
.PP
After the termination of the last rfs client, rfs_nss will
terminate.
.PP
The file /etc/nsswitch.conf must be modified in order to
use this feature. The line beginning with \fBpasswd:\fR and
\fBgroup:\fR must contain as last entry \fBrfs\fR.
.SH "SECURITY"
.PP
If you are the user root and if you attempt to change for example
the group ownership of a file, you may get unexpected results
if you enter an unknown group name.
.PP
As normal user you may only modify the group if you are a member of
the wanted group as well on the client as on the server.
.PP
If ACL is enabled on both client ans server, you will have the right
to add any user and or to file or directory. For this case uncorrect
name will result to unwanted entries, eg.
.PP
\fB$ setacl u:alic:rw file
.br
.br
$ getfacl file
.br
# file: file
.br
# owner: bob
.br
# group: bob
.br
user::rwx
.br
user:nobody:rwx
.br
group::r-x
.br
mask::rwx
.br
other::r-x\fR
.PP
\fBalic\fR was entered instead of \fBalice\fR.


.SH "AUTHORS"
.PP
Jean\-Jacques Sarton: jjsarton@users.sourceforge.net
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
See remotefs project on SourceForge: http://remotefs.sourceforge.net/
.SH "COPYING"
GNU General Public License (GPL) 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBrfsd\fR(8), \fBrfspasswd\fR(8) \fBrfs\fR(1) \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(5) \fBrfs_nss\fr(1).
