.TH "rfsd" "8" "0.10" "remotefs" "remotefs"

.SH "NAME"

rfsd \- remotefs daemon 

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

\fBrfsd\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Rfsd is the daemon which offer the remotefs file system to the clients.

.TS
l.
\-h               show this help screen|
\-a [address]     listen for connections on specified address
\-p [port number] listen for connections on specified port
\-u [username]    worker process be running with privileges of this user
\-g [groupname]   worker process be running with privileges of this group
\-r [path]        change pidfile path from default to [path]
.TE

Rfsd may work in two mode:

The first mode remain compatible with the mode used for versions prior 0.10.
Note that you still need the same version of rfsd and the rfs client.

For this mode all user able to connect to rfsd use the same uid and gid
(user and group identifier) for accessing the harddrive attached to rfsd.
Normally the default user and group are the user "root" and the group "root".
with the \-u and \-g the user and group can be set to an dedicated user and
or group.

The second and new mode is more powerfull, and allow some operations which
was not possible with older versions. Don't use the \-u or \-b options if
you want to use the new features.

Rfsd need the configurations file /etc/rfs\-exports. This file contain
the exported directory or directories as well as the user allowed to mount
the resources and the mode flags. 


\fB# file rfs\-exports
.br
/exports/alice alice (name=alice,group=alice)
.br
/exports/bob alice (name=bob,group=bob)
.br
/exports/chris chris, bob ()
.br
/exports/alice chris (ro)
.br
/exports/shared_dir alice, bob (ugo)
\fP

The directory /exports/alice can be mounted by the user alice. For this
mount point, rfsd will run with the privilege of the user alice and the
group alice. All files and directories must be owned by the user alice
or the group in order to be accessed. The same apply to the second line.

The directory /exports/chris can be mounted by the user chris or bob.
The rfsd intance for this mount point will work with root privilege eg
all files and directories are owned by root:root (no user an group given).
chris and bob have the same rights!

The line /exports/alice chris (ro) allow chris to mount the directory
/exports/alice with read only rights,

The last line /exports/shared_dir alice, bob (ugo) allow the newest feature
of remotefs. Ugo stand for User Group Other the 3 entities for the right
management, With this mode you can share a common directory for a lot a
user. The right managment will be according to the normal access rules for
UNIX systems. Changing the access right or the owner ship is possible, but
this will only work well on systems which known the same users and groups
(server and client).

If alice mount here directory /exports/shared from the office PC, she may
see a strange behaviour, the files are owned for example by the user nobody
or root, but she will be able to modify some of then and not others. 

.SH "BUG"

Remotefs don't crypt the datas send over the network. Remotefs was 
developped in order to have a fast, simole and lean network file system.
Crypting can be done with extarnal tools (kernel based or user space
based as stunnel or ssh).

.SH "AUTHOR"

Aleksey Tulinov: aleksey_t@users.sourceforge.net
.br
with little contributions from
.br
Jean\-Jacques Sarton: jjsarton@users.sourceforge.net 

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
See remotefs project on Sourceforge 

.SH "COPYRIGHT"

GNU General Public License (GPL) 

.SH "SEE ALSO"

rfs(1), remotefs(7), rfspasswd(8) 
